We were proud of Boris Yvain. We claimed him and he claimed us on the
strength of his having been born in America, although his father was
French and his mother was a Russian. Every one in the Beaux Arts called
him Boris. And yet there were only two of us whom he addressed in the
same familiar way—Jack Scott and myself.

Perhaps my being in love with Geneviève had something to do with his
affection for me. Not that it had ever been acknowledged between us.
But after all was settled, and she had told me with tears in her
eyes that it was Boris whom she loved, I went over to his house and
congratulated him. The perfect cordiality of that interview did not
deceive either of us, I always believed, although to one at least it
was a great comfort. I do not think he and Geneviève ever spoke of the
matter together, but Boris knew.

Geneviève was lovely. The Madonna-like purity of her face might have
been inspired by the Sanctus in Gounod’s Mass. But I was always glad
when she changed that mood for what we called her “April Manœuvres.”
She was often as variable as an April day. In the morning grave,
dignified and sweet, at noon laughing, capricious, at evening whatever
one least expected. I preferred her so rather than in that Madonna-like
tranquillity which stirred the depths of my heart. I was dreaming of
Geneviève when he spoke again.

“What do you think of my discovery, Alec?”

“I think it wonderful.”

“I shall make no use of it, you know, beyond satisfying my own
curiosity so far as may be, and the secret will die with me.”

“It would be rather a blow to sculpture, would it not? We painters lose
more than we ever gain by photography.”

Boris nodded, playing with the edge of the chisel.

“This new vicious discovery would corrupt the world of art. No, I shall
never confide the secret to any one,” he said slowly.

It would be hard to find any one less informed about such phenomena
than myself; but of course I had heard of mineral springs so saturated
with silica that the leaves and twigs which fell into them were turned
to stone after a time. I dimly comprehended the process, how the
silica replaced the vegetable matter, atom by atom, and the result
was a duplicate of the object in stone. This, I confess, had never
interested me greatly, and as for the ancient fossils thus produced,
they disgusted me. Boris, it appeared, feeling curiosity instead of
repugnance, had investigated the subject, and had accidentally stumbled
on a solution which, attacking the immersed object with a ferocity
unheard of, in a second did the work of years. This was all I could
make out of the strange story he had just been telling me. He spoke
again after a long silence.

“I am almost frightened when I think what I have found. Scientists
would go mad over the discovery. It was so simple too; it discovered
itself. When I think of that formula, and that new element precipitated
in metallic scales—”

“What new element?”

“Oh, I haven’t thought of naming it, and I don’t believe I ever shall.
There are enough precious metals now in the world to cut throats over.”

I pricked up my ears. “Have you struck gold, Boris?”

“No, better;—but see here, Alec!” he laughed, starting up. “You and I
have all we need in this world. Ah! how sinister and covetous you look
already!” I laughed too, and told him I was devoured by the desire for
gold, and we had better talk of something else; so when Geneviève came
in shortly after, we had turned our backs on alchemy.

Geneviève was dressed in silvery grey from head to foot. The light
glinted along the soft curves of her fair hair as she turned her cheek
to Boris; then she saw me and returned my greeting. She had never
before failed to blow me a kiss from the tips of her white fingers,
and I promptly complained of the omission. She smiled and held out her
hand, which dropped almost before it had touched mine; then she said,
looking at Boris—

“You must ask Alec to stay for luncheon.” This also was something new.
She had always asked me herself until to-day.

“I did,” said Boris shortly.

“And you said yes, I hope?” She turned to me with a charming
conventional smile. I might have been an acquaintance of the day before
yesterday. I made her a low bow. “J’avais bien l’honneur, madame,” but
refusing to take up our usual bantering tone, she murmured a hospitable
commonplace and disappeared. Boris and I looked at one another.

“I had better go home, don’t you think?” I asked.

“Hanged if I know,” he replied frankly.

While we were discussing the advisability of my departure Geneviève
reappeared in the doorway without her bonnet. She was wonderfully
beautiful, but her colour was too deep and her lovely eyes were too
bright. She came straight up to me and took my arm.

“Luncheon is ready. Was I cross, Alec? I thought I had a headache, but
I haven’t. Come here, Boris;” and she slipped her other arm through
his. “Alec knows that after you there is no one in the world whom I
like as well as I like him, so if he sometimes feels snubbed it won’t
hurt him.”

“À la bonheur!” I cried, “who says there are no thunderstorms in April?”

“Are you ready?” chanted Boris. “Aye ready;” and arm-in-arm we raced
into the dining-room, scandalizing the servants. After all we were not
so much to blame; Geneviève was eighteen, Boris was twenty-three, and I
not quite twenty-one.


                                   II

Some work that I was doing about this time on the decorations for
Geneviève’s boudoir kept me constantly at the quaint little hotel in
the Rue Sainte-Cécile. Boris and I in those days laboured hard but as
we pleased, which was fitfully, and we all three, with Jack Scott,
idled a great deal together.

One quiet afternoon I had been wandering alone over the house examining
curios, prying into odd corners, bringing out sweetmeats and cigars
from strange hiding-places, and at last I stopped in the bathing-room.
Boris, all over clay, stood there washing his hands.

The room was built of rose-coloured marble excepting the floor,
which was tessellated in rose and grey. In the centre was a square
pool sunken below the surface of the floor; steps led down into it,
sculptured pillars supported a frescoed ceiling. A delicious marble
Cupid appeared to have just alighted on his pedestal at the upper end
of the room. The whole interior was Boris’ work and mine. Boris, in his
working-clothes of white canvas, scraped the traces of clay and red
modelling wax from his handsome hands, and coquetted over his shoulder
with the Cupid.

“I see you,” he insisted, “don’t try to look the other way and pretend
not to see me. You know who made you, little humbug!”

It was always my rôle to interpret Cupid’s sentiments in these
conversations, and when my turn came I responded in such a manner, that
Boris seized my arm and dragged me toward the pool, declaring he would
duck me. Next instant he dropped my arm and turned pale. “Good God!” he
said, “I forgot the pool is full of the solution!”

I shivered a little, and dryly advised him to remember better where he
had stored the precious liquid.

“In Heaven’s name, why do you keep a small lake of that gruesome stuff
here of all places?” I asked.

“I want to experiment on something large,” he replied.

“On me, for instance?”

“Ah! that came too close for jesting; but I do want to watch the action
of that solution on a more highly organized living body; there is that
big white rabbit,” he said, following me into the studio.

Jack Scott, wearing a paint-stained jacket, came wandering in,
appropriated all the Oriental sweetmeats he could lay his hands on,
looted the cigarette case, and finally he and Boris disappeared
together to visit the Luxembourg Gallery, where a new silver bronze by
Rodin and a landscape of Monet’s were claiming the exclusive attention
of artistic France. I went back to the studio, and resumed my work.
It was a Renaissance screen, which Boris wanted me to paint for
Geneviève’s boudoir. But the small boy who was unwillingly dawdling
through a series of poses for it, to-day refused all bribes to be good.
He never rested an instant in the same position, and inside of five
minutes I had as many different outlines of the little beggar.

“Are you posing, or are you executing a song and dance, my friend?” I
inquired.

“Whichever monsieur pleases,” he replied, with an angelic smile.

Of course I dismissed him for the day, and of course I paid him for the
full time, that being the way we spoil our models.

After the young imp had gone, I made a few perfunctory daubs at my
work, but was so thoroughly out of humour, that it took me the rest
of the afternoon to undo the damage I had done, so at last I scraped
my palette, stuck my brushes in a bowl of black soap, and strolled
into the smoking-room. I really believe that, excepting Geneviève’s
apartments, no room in the house was so free from the perfume of
tobacco as this one. It was a queer chaos of odds and ends, hung with
threadbare tapestry. A sweet-toned old spinet in good repair stood by
the window. There were stands of weapons, some old and dull, others
bright and modern, festoons of Indian and Turkish armour over the
mantel, two or three good pictures, and a pipe-rack. It was here that
we used to come for new sensations in smoking. I doubt if any type of
pipe ever existed which was not represented in that rack. When we had
selected one, we immediately carried it somewhere else and smoked it;
for the place was, on the whole, more gloomy and less inviting than any
in the house. But this afternoon, the twilight was very soothing, the
rugs and skins on the floor looked brown and soft and drowsy; the big
couch was piled with cushions—I found my pipe and curled up there for
an unaccustomed smoke in the smoking-room. I had chosen one with a long
flexible stem, and lighting it fell to dreaming. After a while it went
out, but I did not stir. I dreamed on and presently fell asleep.

I awoke to the saddest music I had ever heard. The room was quite dark,
I had no idea what time it was. A ray of moonlight silvered one edge
of the old spinet, and the polished wood seemed to exhale the sounds
as perfume floats above a box of sandalwood. Some one rose in the
darkness, and came away weeping quietly, and I was fool enough to cry
out “Geneviève!”

She dropped at my voice, and, I had time to curse myself while I made
a light and tried to raise her from the floor. She shrank away with a
murmur of pain. She was very quiet, and asked for Boris. I carried her
to the divan, and went to look for him, but he was not in the house,
and the servants were gone to bed. Perplexed and anxious, I hurried
back to Geneviève. She lay where I had left her, looking very white.

“I can’t find Boris nor any of the servants,” I said.

“I know,” she answered faintly, “Boris has gone to Ept with Mr. Scott.
I did not remember when I sent you for him just now.”

“But he can’t get back in that case before to-morrow afternoon,
and—are you hurt? Did I frighten you into falling? What an awful fool
I am, but I was only half awake.”

“Boris thought you had gone home before dinner. Do please excuse us for
letting you stay here all this time.”

“I have had a long nap,” I laughed, “so sound that I did not know
whether I was still asleep or not when I found myself staring at a
figure that was moving toward me, and called out your name. Have you
been trying the old spinet? You must have played very softly.”

I would tell a thousand more lies worse than that one to see the look
of relief that came into her face. She smiled adorably, and said in her
natural voice: “Alec, I tripped on that wolf’s head, and I think my
ankle is sprained. Please call Marie, and then go home.”

I did as she bade me, and left her there when the maid came in.


                                  III

At noon next day when I called, I found Boris walking restlessly about
his studio.

“Geneviève is asleep just now,” he told me, “the sprain is nothing, but
why should she have such a high fever? The doctor can’t account for it;
or else he will not,” he muttered.

“Geneviève has a fever?” I asked.

“I should say so, and has actually been a little light-headed at
intervals all night. The idea! gay little Geneviève, without a care in
the world,—and she keeps saying her heart’s broken, and she wants to
die!”

My own heart stood still.

Boris leaned against the door of his studio, looking down, his hands
in his pockets, his kind, keen eyes clouded, a new line of trouble
drawn “over the mouth’s good mark, that made the smile.” The maid had
orders to summon him the instant Geneviève opened her eyes. We waited
and waited, and Boris, growing restless, wandered about, fussing with
modelling wax and red clay. Suddenly he started for the next room.
“Come and see my rose-coloured bath full of death!” he cried.

“Is it death?” I asked, to humour his mood.

“You are not prepared to call it life, I suppose,” he answered. As
he spoke he plucked a solitary gold-fish squirming and twisting out
of its globe. “We’ll send this one after the other—wherever that
is,” he said. There was feverish excitement in his voice. A dull
weight of fever lay on my limbs and on my brain as I followed him to
the fair crystal pool with its pink-tinted sides; and he dropped the
creature in. Falling, its scales flashed with a hot orange gleam in
its angry twistings and contortions; the moment it struck the liquid
it became rigid and sank heavily to the bottom. Then came the milky
foam, the splendid hues radiating on the surface and then the shaft
of pure serene light broke through from seemingly infinite depths.
Boris plunged in his hand and drew out an exquisite marble thing,
blue-veined, rose-tinted, and glistening with opalescent drops.

“Child’s play,” he muttered, and looked wearily, longingly at me,—as
if I could answer such questions! But Jack Scott came in and entered
into the “game,” as he called it, with ardour. Nothing would do but to
try the experiment on the white rabbit then and there. I was willing
that Boris should find distraction from his cares, but I hated to
see the life go out of a warm, living creature and I declined to be
present. Picking up a book at random, I sat down in the studio to read.
Alas! I had found _The King in Yellow_. After a few moments, which
seemed ages, I was putting it away with a nervous shudder, when Boris
and Jack came in bringing their marble rabbit. At the same time the
bell rang above, and a cry came from the sick-room. Boris was gone like
a flash, and the next moment he called, “Jack, run for the doctor;
bring him back with you. Alec, come here.”

I went and stood at her door. A frightened maid came out in haste and
ran away to fetch some remedy. Geneviève, sitting bolt upright, with
crimson cheeks and glittering eyes, babbled incessantly and resisted
Boris’ gentle restraint. He called me to help. At my first touch she
sighed and sank back, closing her eyes, and then—then—as we still
bent above her, she opened them again, looked straight into Boris’
face—poor fever-crazed girl!—and told her secret. At the same instant
our three lives turned into new channels; the bond that held us so
long together snapped for ever and a new bond was forged in its place,
for she had spoken my name, and as the fever tortured her, her heart
poured out its load of hidden sorrow. Amazed and dumb I bowed my head,
while my face burned like a live coal, and the blood surged in my
ears, stupefying me with its clamour. Incapable of movement, incapable
of speech, I listened to her feverish words in an agony of shame and
sorrow. I could not silence her, I could not look at Boris. Then I felt
an arm upon my shoulder, and Boris turned a bloodless face to mine.

“It is not your fault, Alec; don’t grieve so if she loves you—” but
he could not finish; and as the doctor stepped swiftly into the room,
saying—“Ah, the fever!” I seized Jack Scott and hurried him to the
street, saying, “Boris would rather be alone.” We crossed the street
to our own apartments, and that night, seeing I was going to be ill
too, he went for the doctor again. The last thing I recollect with any
distinctness was hearing Jack say, “For Heaven’s sake, doctor, what
ails him, to wear a face like that?” and I thought of _The King in
Yellow_ and the Pallid Mask.

I was very ill, for the strain of two years which I had endured since
that fatal May morning when Geneviève murmured, “I love you, but I
think I love Boris best,” told on me at last. I had never imagined that
it could become more than I could endure. Outwardly tranquil, I had
deceived myself. Although the inward battle raged night after night,
and I, lying alone in my room, cursed myself for rebellious thoughts
unloyal to Boris and unworthy of Geneviève, the morning always brought
relief, and I returned to Geneviève and to my dear Boris with a heart
washed clean by the tempests of the night.

Never in word or deed or thought while with them had I betrayed my
sorrow even to myself.

The mask of self-deception was no longer a mask for me, it was a part
of me. Night lifted it, laying bare the stifled truth below; but there
was no one to see except myself, and when the day broke the mask fell
back again of its own accord. These thoughts passed through my troubled
mind as I lay sick, but they were hopelessly entangled with visions of
white creatures, heavy as stone, crawling about in Boris’ basin,—of
the wolf’s head on the rug, foaming and snapping at Geneviève, who
lay smiling beside it. I thought, too, of the King in Yellow wrapped
in the fantastic colours of his tattered mantle, and that bitter
cry of Cassilda, “Not upon us, oh King, not upon us!” Feverishly I
struggled to put it from me, but I saw the lake of Hali, thin and
blank, without a ripple or wind to stir it, and I saw the towers of
Carcosa behind the moon. Aldebaran, the Hyades, Alar, Hastur, glided
through the cloud-rifts which fluttered and flapped as they passed
like the scolloped tatters of the King in Yellow. Among all these,
one sane thought persisted. It never wavered, no matter what else was
going on in my disordered mind, that my chief reason for existing was
to meet some requirement of Boris and Geneviève. What this obligation
was, its nature, was never clear; sometimes it seemed to be protection,
sometimes support, through a great crisis. Whatever it seemed to be
for the time, its weight rested only on me, and I was never so ill or
so weak that I did not respond with my whole soul. There were always
crowds of faces about me, mostly strange, but a few I recognized, Boris
among them. Afterward they told me that this could not have been, but I
know that once at least he bent over me. It was only a touch, a faint
echo of his voice, then the clouds settled back on my senses, and I
lost him, but he _did_ stand there and bend over me _once_ at least.

At last, one morning I awoke to find the sunlight falling across my
bed, and Jack Scott reading beside me. I had not strength enough to
speak aloud, neither could I think, much less remember, but I could
smile feebly, as Jack’s eye met mine, and when he jumped up and asked
eagerly if I wanted anything, I could whisper, “Yes—Boris.” Jack moved
to the head of my bed, and leaned down to arrange my pillow: I did not
see his face, but he answered heartily, “You must wait, Alec; you are
too weak to see even Boris.”

I waited and I grew strong; in a few days I was able to see whom I
would, but meanwhile I had thought and remembered. From the moment
when all the past grew clear again in my mind, I never doubted what I
should do when the time came, and I felt sure that Boris would have
resolved upon the same course so far as he was concerned; as for what
pertained to me alone, I knew he would see that also as I did. I no
longer asked for any one. I never inquired why no message came from
them; why during the week I lay there, waiting and growing stronger, I
never heard their name spoken. Preoccupied with my own searchings for
the right way, and with my feeble but determined fight against despair,
I simply acquiesced in Jack’s reticence, taking for granted that he was
afraid to speak of them, lest I should turn unruly and insist on seeing
them. Meanwhile I said over and over to myself, how would it be when
life began again for us all? We would take up our relations exactly
as they were before Geneviève fell ill. Boris and I would look into
each other’s eyes, and there would be neither rancour nor cowardice
nor mistrust in that glance. I would be with them again for a little
while in the dear intimacy of their home, and then, without pretext or
explanation, I would disappear from their lives for ever. Boris would
know; Geneviève—the only comfort was that she would never know. It
seemed, as I thought it over, that I had found the meaning of that
sense of obligation which had persisted all through my delirium, and
the only possible answer to it. So, when I was quite ready, I beckoned
Jack to me one day, and said—

“Jack, I want Boris at once; and take my dearest greeting to
Geneviève....”

When at last he made me understand that they were both dead, I fell
into a wild rage that tore all my little convalescent strength to
atoms. I raved and cursed myself into a relapse, from which I crawled
forth some weeks afterward a boy of twenty-one who believed that his
youth was gone for ever. I seemed to be past the capability of further
suffering, and one day when Jack handed me a letter and the keys to
Boris’ house, I took them without a tremor and asked him to tell me
all. It was cruel of me to ask him, but there was no help for it, and
he leaned wearily on his thin hands, to reopen the wound which could
never entirely heal. He began very quietly—

“Alec, unless you have a clue that I know nothing about, you will not
be able to explain any more than I what has happened. I suspect that
you would rather not hear these details, but you must learn them, else
I would spare you the relation. God knows I wish I could be spared the
telling. I shall use few words.

“That day when I left you in the doctor’s care and came back to Boris,
I found him working on the ‘Fates.’ Geneviève, he said, was sleeping
under the influence of drugs. She had been quite out of her mind, he
said. He kept on working, not talking any more, and I watched him.
Before long, I saw that the third figure of the group—the one looking
straight ahead, out over the world—bore his face; not as you ever saw
it, but as it looked then and to the end. This is one thing for which I
should like to find an explanation, but I never shall.

“Well, he worked and I watched him in silence, and we went on that way
until nearly midnight. Then we heard the door open and shut sharply,
and a swift rush in the next room. Boris sprang through the doorway
and I followed; but we were too late. She lay at the bottom of the
pool, her hands across her breast. Then Boris shot himself through the
heart.” Jack stopped speaking, drops of sweat stood under his eyes, and
his thin cheeks twitched. “I carried Boris to his room. Then I went
back and let that hellish fluid out of the pool, and turning on all the
water, washed the marble clean of every drop. When at length I dared
descend the steps, I found her lying there as white as snow. At last,
when I had decided what was best to do, I went into the laboratory,
and first emptied the solution in the basin into the waste-pipe; then
I poured the contents of every jar and bottle after it. There was
wood in the fireplace, so I built a fire, and breaking the locks of
Boris’ cabinet I burnt every paper, notebook and letter that I found
there. With a mallet from the studio I smashed to pieces all the empty
bottles, then loading them into a coal-scuttle, I carried them to the
cellar and threw them over the red-hot bed of the furnace. Six times
I made the journey, and at last, not a vestige remained of anything
which might again aid in seeking for the formula which Boris had found.
Then at last I dared call the doctor. He is a good man, and together we
struggled to keep it from the public. Without him I never could have
succeeded. At last we got the servants paid and sent away into the
country, where old Rosier keeps them quiet with stories of Boris’ and
Geneviève’s travels in distant lands, from whence they will not return
for years. We buried Boris in the little cemetery of Sèvres. The doctor
is a good creature, and knows when to pity a man who can bear no more.
He gave his certificate of heart disease and asked no questions of me.”

Then, lifting his head from his hands, he said, “Open the letter, Alec;
it is for us both.”

I tore it open. It was Boris’ will dated a year before. He left
everything to Geneviève, and in case of her dying childless, I was to
take control of the house in the Rue Sainte-Cécile, and Jack Scott the
management at Ept. On our deaths the property reverted to his mother’s
family in Russia, with the exception of the sculptured marbles executed
by himself. These he left to me.

The page blurred under our eyes, and Jack got up and walked to the
window. Presently he returned and sat down again. I dreaded to hear
what he was going to say, but he spoke with the same simplicity and
gentleness.

“Geneviève lies before the Madonna in the marble room. The Madonna
bends tenderly above her, and Geneviève smiles back into that calm face
that never would have been except for her.”

His voice broke, but he grasped my hand, saying, “Courage, Alec.” Next
morning he left for Ept to fulfil his trust.


                                   IV

The same evening I took the keys and went into the house I had known
so well. Everything was in order, but the silence was terrible. Though
I went twice to the door of the marble room, I could not force myself
to enter. It was beyond my strength. I went into the smoking-room and
sat down before the spinet. A small lace handkerchief lay on the keys,
and I turned away, choking. It was plain I could not stay, so I locked
every door, every window, and the three front and back gates, and
went away. Next morning Alcide packed my valise, and leaving him in
charge of my apartments I took the Orient express for Constantinople.
During the two years that I wandered through the East, at first, in our
letters, we never mentioned Geneviève and Boris, but gradually their
names crept in. I recollect particularly a passage in one of Jack’s
letters replying to one of mine—

“What you tell me of seeing Boris bending over you while you lay ill,
and feeling his touch on your face, and hearing his voice, of course
troubles me. This that you describe must have happened a fortnight
after he died. I say to myself that you were dreaming, that it was part
of your delirium, but the explanation does not satisfy me, nor would it
you.”

Toward the end of the second year a letter came from Jack to me in
India so unlike anything that I had ever known of him that I decided
to return at once to Paris. He wrote: “I am well, and sell all my
pictures as artists do who have no need of money. I have not a care of
my own, but I am more restless than if I had. I am unable to shake off
a strange anxiety about you. It is not apprehension, it is rather a
breathless expectancy—of what, God knows! I can only say it is wearing
me out. Nights I dream always of you and Boris. I can never recall
anything afterward, but I wake in the morning with my heart beating,
and all day the excitement increases until I fall asleep at night
to recall the same experience. I am quite exhausted by it, and have
determined to break up this morbid condition. I must see you. Shall I
go to Bombay, or will you come to Paris?”

I telegraphed him to expect me by the next steamer.

When we met I thought he had changed very little; I, he insisted,
looked in splendid health. It was good to hear his voice again, and as
we sat and chatted about what life still held for us, we felt that it
was pleasant to be alive in the bright spring weather.

We stayed in Paris together a week, and then I went for a week to Ept
with him, but first of all we went to the cemetery at Sèvres, where
Boris lay.

“Shall we place the ‘Fates’ in the little grove above him?” Jack asked,
and I answered—

“I think only the ‘Madonna’ should watch over Boris’ grave.” But Jack
was none the better for my home-coming. The dreams of which he could
not retain even the least definite outline continued, and he said that
at times the sense of breathless expectancy was suffocating.

“You see I do you harm and not good,” I said. “Try a change without
me.” So he started alone for a ramble among the Channel Islands, and I
went back to Paris. I had not yet entered Boris’ house, now mine, since
my return, but I knew it must be done. It had been kept in order by
Jack; there were servants there, so I gave up my own apartment and went
there to live. Instead of the agitation I had feared, I found myself
able to paint there tranquilly. I visited all the rooms—all but one.
I could not bring myself to enter the marble room where Geneviève lay,
and yet I felt the longing growing daily to look upon her face, to
kneel beside her.

One April afternoon, I lay dreaming in the smoking-room, just as
I had lain two years before, and mechanically I looked among the
tawny Eastern rugs for the wolf-skin. At last I distinguished the
pointed ears and flat cruel head, and I thought of my dream where
I saw Geneviève lying beside it. The helmets still hung against
the threadbare tapestry, among them the old Spanish morion which I
remembered Geneviève had once put on when we were amusing ourselves
with the ancient bits of mail. I turned my eyes to the spinet; every
yellow key seemed eloquent of her caressing hand, and I rose, drawn
by the strength of my life’s passion to the sealed door of the marble
room. The heavy doors swung inward under my trembling hands. Sunlight
poured through the window, tipping with gold the wings of Cupid, and
lingered like a nimbus over the brows of the Madonna. Her tender face
bent in compassion over a marble form so exquisitely pure that I knelt
and signed myself. Geneviève lay in the shadow under the Madonna, and
yet, through her white arms, I saw the pale azure vein, and beneath her
softly clasped hands the folds of her dress were tinged with rose, as
if from some faint warm light within her breast.

Bending, with a breaking heart, I touched the marble drapery with my
lips, then crept back into the silent house.

A maid came and brought me a letter, and I sat down in the little
conservatory to read it; but as I was about to break the seal, seeing
the girl lingering, I asked her what she wanted.

She stammered something about a white rabbit that had been caught in
the house, and asked what should be done with it. I told her to let it
loose in the walled garden behind the house, and opened my letter. It
was from Jack, but so incoherent that I thought he must have lost his
reason. It was nothing but a series of prayers to me not to leave the
house until he could get back; he could not tell me why, there were the
dreams, he said—he could explain nothing, but he was sure that I must
not leave the house in the Rue Sainte-Cécile.

As I finished reading I raised my eyes and saw the same maid-servant
standing in the doorway holding a glass dish in which two gold-fish
were swimming: “Put them back into the tank and tell me what you mean
by interrupting me,” I said.

With a half-suppressed whimper she emptied water and fish into an
aquarium at the end of the conservatory, and turning to me asked my
permission to leave my service. She said people were playing tricks on
her, evidently with a design of getting her into trouble; the marble
rabbit had been stolen and a live one had been brought into the house;
the two beautiful marble fish were gone, and she had just found those
common live things flopping on the dining-room floor. I reassured her
and sent her away, saying I would look about myself. I went into the
studio; there was nothing there but my canvases and some casts, except
the marble of the Easter lily. I saw it on a table across the room.
Then I strode angrily over to it. But the flower I lifted from the
table was fresh and fragile and filled the air with perfume.

Then suddenly I comprehended, and sprang through the hallway to the
marble room. The doors flew open, the sunlight streamed into my face,
and through it, in a heavenly glory, the Madonna smiled, as Geneviève
lifted her flushed face from her marble couch and opened her sleepy
eyes.




                       IN THE COURT OF THE DRAGON


    “Oh, thou who burn’st in heart for those who burn
     In Hell, whose fires thyself shall feed in turn;
     How long be crying—‘Mercy on them.’ God!
     Why, who art thou to teach and He to learn?”

In the Church of St. Barnabé vespers were over; the clergy left the
altar; the little choir-boys flocked across the chancel and settled
in the stalls. A Suisse in rich uniform marched down the south aisle,
sounding his staff at every fourth step on the stone pavement; behind
him came that eloquent preacher and good man, Monseigneur C——.

My chair was near the chancel rail, I now turned toward the west end of
the church. The other people between the altar and the pulpit turned
too. There was a little scraping and rustling while the congregation
seated itself again; the preacher mounted the pulpit stairs, and the
organ voluntary ceased.

I had always found the organ-playing at St. Barnabé highly interesting.
Learned and scientific it was, too much so for my small knowledge,
but expressing a vivid if cold intelligence. Moreover, it possessed
the French quality of taste: taste reigned supreme, self-controlled,
dignified and reticent.

To-day, however, from the first chord I had felt a change for the
worse, a sinister change. During vespers it had been chiefly the
chancel organ which supported the beautiful choir, but now and again,
quite wantonly as it seemed, from the west gallery where the great
organ stands, a heavy hand had struck across the church at the serene
peace of those clear voices. It was something more than harsh and
dissonant, and it betrayed no lack of skill. As it recurred again and
again, it set me thinking of what my architect’s books say about the
custom in early times to consecrate the choir as soon as it was built,
and that the nave, being finished sometimes half a century later, often
did not get any blessing at all: I wondered idly if that had been the
case at St. Barnabé, and whether something not usually supposed to be
at home in a Christian church might have entered undetected and taken
possession of the west gallery. I had read of such things happening,
too, but not in works on architecture.

Then I remembered that St. Barnabé was not much more than a hundred
years old, and smiled at the incongruous association of mediaeval
superstitions with that cheerful little piece of eighteenth-century
rococo.

But now vespers were over, and there should have followed a few quiet
chords, fit to accompany meditation, while we waited for the sermon.
Instead of that, the discord at the lower end of the church broke out
with the departure of the clergy, as if now nothing could control it.

I belong to those children of an older and simpler generation who do
not love to seek for psychological subtleties in art; and I have ever
refused to find in music anything more than melody and harmony, but I
felt that in the labyrinth of sounds now issuing from that instrument
there was something being hunted. Up and down the pedals chased him,
while the manuals blared approval. Poor devil! whoever he was, there
seemed small hope of escape!

My nervous annoyance changed to anger. Who was doing this? How dare
he play like that in the midst of divine service? I glanced at the
people near me: not one appeared to be in the least disturbed. The
placid brows of the kneeling nuns, still turned towards the altar, lost
none of their devout abstraction under the pale shadow of their white
head-dress. The fashionable lady beside me was looking expectantly at
Monseigneur C——. For all her face betrayed, the organ might have been
singing an Ave Maria.

But now, at last, the preacher had made the sign of the cross, and
commanded silence. I turned to him gladly. Thus far I had not found the
rest I had counted on when I entered St. Barnabé that afternoon.

I was worn out by three nights of physical suffering and mental
trouble: the last had been the worst, and it was an exhausted body,
and a mind benumbed and yet acutely sensitive, which I had brought to
my favourite church for healing. For I had been reading _The King in
Yellow_.

“The sun ariseth; they gather themselves together and lay them down
in their dens.” Monseigneur C—— delivered his text in a calm voice,
glancing quietly over the congregation. My eyes turned, I knew not
why, toward the lower end of the church. The organist was coming from
behind his pipes, and passing along the gallery on his way out, I saw
him disappear by a small door that leads to some stairs which descend
directly to the street. He was a slender man, and his face was as white
as his coat was black. “Good riddance!” I thought, “with your wicked
music! I hope your assistant will play the closing voluntary.”

With a feeling of relief—with a deep, calm feeling of relief, I turned
back to the mild face in the pulpit and settled myself to listen. Here,
at last, was the ease of mind I longed for.

“My children,” said the preacher, “one truth the human soul finds
hardest of all to learn: that it has nothing to fear. It can never be
made to see that nothing can really harm it.”

“Curious doctrine!” I thought, “for a Catholic priest. Let us see how
he will reconcile that with the Fathers.”

“Nothing can really harm the soul,” he went on, in, his coolest,
clearest tones, “because——”

But I never heard the rest; my eye left his face, I knew not for what
reason, and sought the lower end of the church. The same man was coming
out from behind the organ, and was passing along the gallery _the same
way_. But there had not been time for him to return, and if he had
returned, I must have seen him. I felt a faint chill, and my heart
sank; and yet, his going and coming were no affair of mine. I looked
at him: I could not look away from his black figure and his white
face. When he was exactly opposite to me, he turned and sent across
the church straight into my eyes, a look of hate, intense and deadly:
I have never seen any other like it; would to God I might never see it
again! Then he disappeared by the same door through which I had watched
him depart less than sixty seconds before.

I sat and tried to collect my thoughts. My first sensation was like
that of a very young child badly hurt, when it catches its breath
before crying out.

To suddenly find myself the object of such hatred was exquisitely
painful: and this man was an utter stranger. Why should he hate me
so?—me, whom he had never seen before? For the moment all other
sensation was merged in this one pang: even fear was subordinate to
grief, and for that moment I never doubted; but in the next I began to
reason, and a sense of the incongruous came to my aid.

As I have said, St. Barnabé is a modern church. It is small and well
lighted; one sees all over it almost at a glance. The organ gallery
gets a strong white light from a row of long windows in the clerestory,
which have not even coloured glass.

The pulpit being in the middle of the church, it followed that, when I
was turned toward it, whatever moved at the west end could not fail to
attract my eye. When the organist passed it was no wonder that I saw
him: I had simply miscalculated the interval between his first and his
second passing. He had come in that last time by the other side-door.
As for the look which had so upset me, there had been no such thing,
and I was a nervous fool.

I looked about. This was a likely place to harbour supernatural
horrors! That clear-cut, reasonable face of Monseigneur C——, his
collected manner and easy, graceful gestures, were they not just a
little discouraging to the notion of a gruesome mystery? I glanced
above his head, and almost laughed. That flyaway lady supporting
one corner of the pulpit canopy, which looked like a fringed damask
table-cloth in a high wind, at the first attempt of a basilisk to pose
up there in the organ loft, she would point her gold trumpet at him,
and puff him out of existence! I laughed to myself over this conceit,
which, at the time, I thought very amusing, and sat and chaffed myself
and everything else, from the old harpy outside the railing, who had
made me pay ten centimes for my chair, before she would let me in
(she was more like a basilisk, I told myself, than was my organist
with the anaemic complexion): from that grim old dame, to, yes, alas!
Monseigneur C—— himself. For all devoutness had fled. I had never yet
done such a thing in my life, but now I felt a desire to mock.

As for the sermon, I could not hear a word of it for the jingle in my
ears of

    “The skirts of St. Paul has reached.
     Having preached us those six Lent lectures,
     More unctuous than ever he preached,”

keeping time to the most fantastic and irreverent thoughts.

It was no use to sit there any longer: I must get out of doors and
shake myself free from this hateful mood. I knew the rudeness I was
committing, but still I rose and left the church.

A spring sun was shining on the Rue St. Honoré, as I ran down the
church steps. On one corner stood a barrow full of yellow jonquils,
pale violets from the Riviera, dark Russian violets, and white Roman
hyacinths in a golden cloud of mimosa. The street was full of Sunday
pleasure-seekers. I swung my cane and laughed with the rest. Some one
overtook and passed me. He never turned, but there was the same deadly
malignity in his white profile that there had been in his eyes. I
watched him as long as I could see him. His lithe back expressed the
same menace; every step that carried him away from me seemed to bear
him on some errand connected with my destruction.

I was creeping along, my feet almost refusing to move. There began to
dawn in me a sense of responsibility for something long forgotten. It
began to seem as if I deserved that which he threatened: it reached a
long way back—a long, long way back. It had lain dormant all these
years: it was there, though, and presently it would rise and confront
me. But I would try to escape; and I stumbled as best I could into the
Rue de Rivoli, across the Place de la Concorde and on to the Quai. I
looked with sick eyes upon the sun, shining through the white foam of
the fountain, pouring over the backs of the dusky bronze river-gods, on
the far-away Arc, a structure of amethyst mist, on the countless vistas
of grey stems and bare branches faintly green. Then I saw him again
coming down one of the chestnut alleys of the Cours la Reine.

I left the river-side, plunged blindly across to the Champs Elysées
and turned toward the Arc. The setting sun was sending its rays along
the green sward of the Rond-point: in the full glow he sat on a bench,
children and young mothers all about him. He was nothing but a Sunday
lounger, like the others, like myself. I said the words almost aloud,
and all the while I gazed on the malignant hatred of his face. But he
was not looking at me. I crept past and dragged my leaden feet up the
Avenue. I knew that every time I met him brought him nearer to the
accomplishment of his purpose and my fate. And still I tried to save
myself.

The last rays of sunset were pouring through the great Arc. I passed
under it, and met him face to face. I had left him far down the Champs
Elysées, and yet he came in with a stream of people who were returning
from the Bois de Boulogne. He came so close that he brushed me. His
slender frame felt like iron inside its loose black covering. He showed
no signs of haste, nor of fatigue, nor of any human feeling. His whole
being expressed one thing: the will, and the power to work me evil.

In anguish I watched him where he went down the broad crowded Avenue,
that was all flashing with wheels and the trappings of horses and the
helmets of the Garde Republicaine.

He was soon lost to sight; then I turned and fled. Into the Bois, and
far out beyond it—I know not where I went, but after a long while as
it seemed to me, night had fallen, and I found myself sitting at a
table before a small café. I had wandered back into the Bois. It was
hours now since I had seen him. Physical fatigue and mental suffering
had left me no power to think or feel. I was tired, so tired! I longed
to hide away in my own den. I resolved to go home. But that was a long
way off.

I live in the Court of the Dragon, a narrow passage that leads from the
Rue de Rennes to the Rue du Dragon.

It is an “impasse”; traversable only for foot passengers. Over the
entrance on the Rue de Rennes is a balcony, supported by an iron
dragon. Within the court tall old houses rise on either side, and close
the ends that give on the two streets. Huge gates, swung back during
the day into the walls of the deep archways, close this court, after
midnight, and one must enter then by ringing at certain small doors on
the side. The sunken pavement collects unsavoury pools. Steep stairways
pitch down to doors that open on the court. The ground floors are
occupied by shops of second-hand dealers, and by iron workers. All day
long the place rings with the clink of hammers and the clang of metal
bars.

Unsavoury as it is below, there is cheerfulness, and comfort, and hard,
honest work above.

Five flights up are the ateliers of architects and painters, and the
hiding-places of middle-aged students like myself who want to live
alone. When I first came here to live I was young, and not alone.

I had to walk a while before any conveyance appeared, but at last, when
I had almost reached the Arc de Triomphe again, an empty cab came along
and I took it.

From the Arc to the Rue de Rennes is a drive of more than half an hour,
especially when one is conveyed by a tired cab horse that has been at
the mercy of Sunday fête-makers.

There had been time before I passed under the Dragon’s wings to meet my
enemy over and over again, but I never saw him once, and now refuge was
close at hand.

Before the wide gateway a small mob of children were playing. Our
concierge and his wife walked among them, with their black poodle,
keeping order; some couples were waltzing on the sidewalk. I returned
their greetings and hurried in.

All the inhabitants of the court had trooped out into the street. The
place was quite deserted, lighted by a few lanterns hung high up, in
which the gas burned dimly.

My apartment was at the top of a house, halfway down the court, reached
by a staircase that descended almost into the street, with only a bit
of passage-way intervening, I set my foot on the threshold of the open
door, the friendly old ruinous stairs rose before me, leading up to
rest and shelter. Looking back over my right shoulder, I saw _him,_ ten
paces off. He must have entered the court with me.

He was coming straight on, neither slowly, nor swiftly, but straight on
to me. And now he was looking at me. For the first time since our eyes
encountered across the church they met now again, and I knew that the
time had come.

Retreating backward, down the court, I faced him. I meant to escape by
the entrance on the Rue du Dragon. His eyes told me that I never should
escape.

It seemed ages while we were going, I retreating, he advancing, down
the court in perfect silence; but at last I felt the shadow of the
archway, and the next step brought me within it. I had meant to turn
here and spring through into the street. But the shadow was not that
of an archway; it was that of a vault. The great doors on the Rue du
Dragon were closed. I felt this by the blackness which surrounded me,
and at the same instant I read it in his face. How his face gleamed in
the darkness, drawing swiftly nearer! The deep vaults, the huge closed
doors, their cold iron clamps were all on his side. The thing which
he had threatened had arrived: it gathered and bore down on me from
the fathomless shadows; the point from which it would strike was his
infernal eyes. Hopeless, I set my back against the barred doors and
defied him.

                   *       *       *       *       *

There was a scraping of chairs on the stone floor, and a rustling as
the congregation rose. I could hear the Suisse’s staff in the south
aisle, preceding Monseigneur C—— to the sacristy.

The kneeling nuns, roused from their devout abstraction, made their
reverence and went away. The fashionable lady, my neighbour, rose also,
with graceful reserve. As she departed her glance just flitted over my
face in disapproval.

Half dead, or so it seemed to me, yet intensely alive to every trifle,
I sat among the leisurely moving crowd, then rose too and went toward
the door.

I had slept through the sermon. Had I slept through the sermon? I
looked up and saw him passing along the gallery to his place. Only
his side I saw; the thin bent arm in its black covering looked like
one of those devilish, nameless instruments which lie in the disused
torture-chambers of mediaeval castles.

But I had escaped him, though his eyes had said I should not. _Had_ I
escaped him? That which gave him the power over me came back out of
oblivion, where I had hoped to keep it. For I knew him now. Death and
the awful abode of lost souls, whither my weakness long ago had sent
him—they had changed him for every other eye, but not for mine. I
had recognized him almost from the first; I had never doubted what he
was come to do; and now I knew while my body sat safe in the cheerful
little church, he had been hunting my soul in the Court of the Dragon.

I crept to the door: the organ broke out overhead with a blare. A
dazzling light filled the church, blotting the altar from my eyes. The
people faded away, the arches, the vaulted roof vanished. I raised my
seared eyes to the fathomless glare, and I saw the black stars hanging
in the heavens: and the wet winds from the lake of Hali chilled my face.

And now, far away, over leagues of tossing cloud-waves, I saw the moon
dripping with spray; and beyond, the towers of Carcosa rose behind the
moon.

Death and the awful abode of lost souls, whither my weakness long ago
had sent him, had changed him for every other eye but mine. And now I
heard _his voice_, rising, swelling, thundering through the flaring
light, and as I fell, the radiance increasing, increasing, poured over
me in waves of flame. Then I sank into the depths, and I heard the King
in Yellow whispering to my soul: “It is a fearful thing to fall into
the hands of the living God!”




                            THE YELLOW SIGN

    “Let the red dawn surmise
       What we shall do,
     When this blue starlight dies
       And all is through.”


                                   I

There are so many things which are impossible to explain! Why should
certain chords in music make me think of the brown and golden tints of
autumn foliage? Why should the Mass of Sainte Cécile bend my thoughts
wandering among caverns whose walls blaze with ragged masses of virgin
silver? What was it in the roar and turmoil of Broadway at six o’clock
that flashed before my eyes the picture of a still Breton forest
where sunlight filtered through spring foliage and Sylvia bent, half
curiously, half tenderly, over a small green lizard, murmuring: “To
think that this also is a little ward of God!”

When I first saw the watchman his back was toward me. I looked at him
indifferently until he went into the church. I paid no more attention
to him than I had to any other man who lounged through Washington
Square that morning, and when I shut my window and turned back into
my studio I had forgotten him. Late in the afternoon, the day being
warm, I raised the window again and leaned out to get a sniff of air.
A man was standing in the courtyard of the church, and I noticed him
again with as little interest as I had that morning. I looked across
the square to where the fountain was playing and then, with my mind
filled with vague impressions of trees, asphalt drives, and the moving
groups of nursemaids and holiday-makers, I started to walk back to
my easel. As I turned, my listless glance included the man below in
the churchyard. His face was toward me now, and with a perfectly
involuntary movement I bent to see it. At the same moment he raised
his head and looked at me. Instantly I thought of a coffin-worm.
Whatever it was about the man that repelled me I did not know, but the
impression of a plump white grave-worm was so intense and nauseating
that I must have shown it in my expression, for he turned his puffy
face away with a movement which made me think of a disturbed grub in a
chestnut.

I went back to my easel and motioned the model to resume her pose.
After working a while I was satisfied that I was spoiling what I had
done as rapidly as possible, and I took up a palette knife and scraped
the colour out again. The flesh tones were sallow and unhealthy, and I
did not understand how I could have painted such sickly colour into a
study which before that had glowed with healthy tones.

I looked at Tessie. She had not changed, and the clear flush of health
dyed her neck and cheeks as I frowned.

“Is it something I’ve done?” she said.

“No,—I’ve made a mess of this arm, and for the life of me I can’t see
how I came to paint such mud as that into the canvas,” I replied.

“Don’t I pose well?” she insisted.

“Of course, perfectly.”

“Then it’s not my fault?”

“No. It’s my own.”

“I am very sorry,” she said.

I told her she could rest while I applied rag and turpentine to the
plague spot on my canvas, and she went off to smoke a cigarette and
look over the illustrations in the _Courrier Français_.

I did not know whether it was something in the turpentine or a defect
in the canvas, but the more I scrubbed the more that gangrene seemed
to spread. I worked like a beaver to get it out, and yet the disease
appeared to creep from limb to limb of the study before me. Alarmed, I
strove to arrest it, but now the colour on the breast changed and the
whole figure seemed to absorb the infection as a sponge soaks up water.
Vigorously I plied palette-knife, turpentine, and scraper, thinking
all the time what a _séance_ I should hold with Duval who had sold me
the canvas; but soon I noticed that it was not the canvas which was
defective nor yet the colours of Edward. “It must be the turpentine,” I
thought angrily, “or else my eyes have become so blurred and confused
by the afternoon light that I can’t see straight.” I called Tessie, the
model. She came and leaned over my chair blowing rings of smoke into
the air.

“What _have_ you been doing to it?” she exclaimed.

“Nothing,” I growled, “it must be this turpentine!”

“What a horrible colour it is now,” she continued. “Do you think my
flesh resembles green cheese?”

“No, I don’t,” I said angrily; “did you ever know me to paint like that
before?”

“No, indeed!”

“Well, then!”

“It must be the turpentine, or something,” she admitted.

She slipped on a Japanese robe and walked to the window. I scraped and
rubbed until I was tired, and finally picked up my brushes and hurled
them through the canvas with a forcible expression, the tone alone of
which reached Tessie’s ears.

Nevertheless she promptly began: “That’s it! Swear and act silly and
ruin your brushes! You have been three weeks on that study, and now
look! What’s the good of ripping the canvas? What creatures artists
are!”

I felt about as much ashamed as I usually did after such an outbreak,
and I turned the ruined canvas to the wall. Tessie helped me clean my
brushes, and then danced away to dress. From the screen she regaled me
with bits of advice concerning whole or partial loss of temper, until,
thinking, perhaps, I had been tormented sufficiently, she came out to
implore me to button her waist where she could not reach it on the
shoulder.

“Everything went wrong from the time you came back from the window and
talked about that horrid-looking man you saw in the churchyard,” she
announced.

“Yes, he probably bewitched the picture,” I said, yawning. I looked at
my watch.

“It’s after six, I know,” said Tessie, adjusting her hat before the
mirror.

“Yes,” I replied, “I didn’t mean to keep you so long.” I leaned out
of the window but recoiled with disgust, for the young man with the
pasty face stood below in the churchyard. Tessie saw my gesture of
disapproval and leaned from the window.

“Is that the man you don’t like?” she whispered.

I nodded.

“I can’t see his face, but he does look fat and soft. Someway or
other,” she continued, turning to look at me, “he reminds me of a
dream,—an awful dream I once had. Or,” she mused, looking down at her
shapely shoes, “was it a dream after all?”

“How should I know?” I smiled.

Tessie smiled in reply.

“You were in it,” she said, “so perhaps you might know something about
it.”

“Tessie! Tessie!” I protested, “don’t you dare flatter by saying that
you dream about me!”

“But I did,” she insisted; “shall I tell you about it?”

“Go ahead,” I replied, lighting a cigarette.

Tessie leaned back on the open window-sill and began very seriously.

“One night last winter I was lying in bed thinking about nothing at all
in particular. I had been posing for you and I was tired out, yet it
seemed impossible for me to sleep. I heard the bells in the city ring
ten, eleven, and midnight. I must have fallen asleep about midnight
because I don’t remember hearing the bells after that. It seemed to
me that I had scarcely closed my eyes when I dreamed that something
impelled me to go to the window. I rose, and raising the sash leaned
out. Twenty-fifth Street was deserted as far as I could see. I began to
be afraid; everything outside seemed so—so black and uncomfortable.
Then the sound of wheels in the distance came to my ears, and it seemed
to me as though that was what I must wait for. Very slowly the wheels
approached, and, finally, I could make out a vehicle moving along the
street. It came nearer and nearer, and when it passed beneath my window
I saw it was a hearse. Then, as I trembled with fear, the driver turned
and looked straight at me. When I awoke I was standing by the open
window shivering with cold, but the black-plumed hearse and the driver
were gone. I dreamed this dream again in March last, and again awoke
beside the open window. Last night the dream came again. You remember
how it was raining; when I awoke, standing at the open window, my
night-dress was soaked.”

“But where did I come into the dream?” I asked.

“You—you were in the coffin; but you were not dead.”

“In the coffin?”

“Yes.”

“How did you know? Could you see me?”

“No; I only knew you were there.”

“Had you been eating Welsh rarebits, or lobster salad?” I began,
laughing, but the girl interrupted me with a frightened cry.

“Hello! What’s up?” I said, as she shrank into the embrasure by the
window.

“The—the man below in the churchyard;—he drove the hearse.”

“Nonsense,” I said, but Tessie’s eyes were wide with terror. I went to
the window and looked out. The man was gone. “Come, Tessie,” I urged,
“don’t be foolish. You have posed too long; you are nervous.”

“Do you think I could forget that face?” she murmured. “Three times I
saw the hearse pass below my window, and every time the driver turned
and looked up at me. Oh, his face was so white and—and soft? It looked
dead—it looked as if it had been dead a long time.”

I induced the girl to sit down and swallow a glass of Marsala. Then I
sat down beside her, and tried to give her some advice.

“Look here, Tessie,” I said, “you go to the country for a week or two,
and you’ll have no more dreams about hearses. You pose all day, and
when night comes your nerves are upset. You can’t keep this up. Then
again, instead of going to bed when your day’s work is done, you run
off to picnics at Sulzer’s Park, or go to the Eldorado or Coney Island,
and when you come down here next morning you are fagged out. There was
no real hearse. There was a soft-shell crab dream.”

She smiled faintly.

“What about the man in the churchyard?”

“Oh, he’s only an ordinary unhealthy, everyday creature.”

“As true as my name is Tessie Reardon, I swear to you, Mr. Scott, that
the face of the man below in the churchyard is the face of the man who
drove the hearse!”

“What of it?” I said. “It’s an honest trade.”

“Then you think I _did_ see the hearse?”

“Oh,” I said diplomatically, “if you really did, it might not be
unlikely that the man below drove it. There is nothing in that.”

Tessie rose, unrolled her scented handkerchief, and taking a bit of gum
from a knot in the hem, placed it in her mouth. Then drawing on her
gloves she offered me her hand, with a frank, “Good-night, Mr. Scott,”
and walked out.


                                   II

The next morning, Thomas, the bell-boy, brought me the _Herald_ and a
bit of news. The church next door had been sold. I thanked Heaven for
it, not that being a Catholic I had any repugnance for the congregation
next door, but because my nerves were shattered by a blatant exhorter,
whose every word echoed through the aisle of the church as if it had
been my own rooms, and who insisted on his r’s with a nasal persistence
which revolted my every instinct. Then, too, there was a fiend in human
shape, an organist, who reeled off some of the grand old hymns with an
interpretation of his own, and I longed for the blood of a creature
who could play the doxology with an amendment of minor chords which
one hears only in a quartet of very young undergraduates. I believe
the minister was a good man, but when he bellowed: “And the Lorrrrd
said unto Moses, the Lorrrd is a man of war; the Lorrrd is his name. My
wrath shall wax hot and I will kill you with the sworrrrd!” I wondered
how many centuries of purgatory it would take to atone for such a sin.

“Who bought the property?” I asked Thomas.

“Nobody that I knows, sir. They do say the gent wot owns this ’ere
’Amilton flats was lookin’ at it. ’E might be a bildin’ more studios.”

I walked to the window. The young man with the unhealthy face stood by
the churchyard gate, and at the mere sight of him the same overwhelming
repugnance took possession of me.

“By the way, Thomas,” I said, “who is that fellow down there?”

Thomas sniffed. “That there worm, sir? ’Es night-watchman of the
church, sir. ’E maikes me tired a-sittin’ out all night on them steps
and lookin’ at you insultin’ like. I’d a punched ’is ’ed, sir—beg
pardon, sir—”

“Go on, Thomas.”

“One night a comin’ ’ome with ’Arry, the other English boy, I sees ’im
a sittin’ there on them steps. We ’ad Molly and Jen with us, sir, the
two girls on the tray service, an’ ’e looks so insultin’ at us that
I up and sez: ‘Wat you looking hat, you fat slug?’—beg pardon, sir,
but that’s ’ow I sez, sir. Then ’e don’t say nothin’ and I sez: ‘Come
out and I’ll punch that puddin’ ’ed.’ Then I hopens the gate an’ goes
in, but ’e don’t say nothin’, only looks insultin’ like. Then I ’its
’im one, but, ugh! ’is ’ed was that cold and mushy it ud sicken you to
touch ’im.”

“What did he do then?” I asked curiously.

“’Im? Nawthin’.”